Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language which are used in Computer programming that
give sets of instruction which can produce various kinds of output.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.It stands for Java Development Kit.
  Components
  -The Runtime Interpreter
  -The Compiler
  -The Applet Viewer
  -The Debugger
  -The Documentation Generator
  -API Source Code





What is IDE?
A.Intregrated Development Enviroment



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbean, and Bluejay.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. First we have to create a source file which we have to save as (extention.java) file
which is then compiled using the java compiler to create bytecode or class file
(extension .class). The class file then loads into the JVM using java loader. Finally,
JVM reads the bytecode  in memory and translate them into machine code for us to see the
output.



what is class?
A.Class is a blueprint of an object





What is object?
A.Object is an instance of a class.





What is the entry point of an application?
A.main() method.





Why main is static?
A.The main method is static because keyword static allows main to be
called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.




Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.Object class.





What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Environment.





What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.In interface can have only abstract method. On the other hand, Abstract class can have
both abstract and regular method.




Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.No, we have to implement the interface or abstract class in a concrete class.






what is Access Specifier?
A.Access modifiers are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of
classes, methods, and other members.






What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP is Object Oriented Programming.
  Features of java OOP:
  -Abstraction : implementation hiding .
  -Encapsulation :data hiding.
  -Polymorphism : the ability of an object to behave differently in different situation.
   overloading and overriding are the two types of polymorphism.
  -Inheritance : the ability of a class to inherit properties of other classes.



What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Java Package is a package organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.
java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it.







What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.API stands for Application Programming Interface. Java application programming
interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part of the Java development kit (JDK).
It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their methods, fields,
and constructors. These prewritten classes provide a tremendous amount of functionality
to a programmer.





Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No, Java Does not support multiple inheritance because it creates confusion and complexity.
To avoid complexity it does not support multiple inheritance through class but through
the interface it is possible in java.





What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method overloading is when you have the same method name but with multiple arguments
inside the parameters. It happens during compile time.





Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.An exception is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution
of a program at run time, that disrupts the normal flow of the program’s instructions.
You can handle an exception with a try catch block or throws keyword.






What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.Static keyword that are used for sharing the same variable or method of a given class.
    Static variable:
    -It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class. 
    -Static variables are initialized only once. 

    Static Method:
    - A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. 
    - A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class. 
    - Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it. 





What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.Final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
It is used to create constant variables, prevent method overriding and prevent Inheritance.




What is final, finally and finalize?
A.Final- is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
Finally- is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize- is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.



What is a constructor ?
A.Constructor is used to initialize an object.



Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.Yes.





If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.Default constructors




What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. "this" keyword refers to current object.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A."Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class. 
  super can be used to refer immediate parent class's instance variable, method and constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.Yes

What version of java are you using?
A.12.0.2

What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JDK is Java Development Kit which include JVM,JRE.On the other hand, JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an
abstract machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the
implementation of JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses
at runtime.JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development
tools.

What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is
the instance where the executable is running.

What is heap?
A.Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
A.All references are stored in stack and all objects are stored in heap.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.Once a String object is created it cannot be changed . StringBuffer is mutable means one can change
the value of the object. StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and
inserting characters and strings.


What is Singleton class?
A.A singleton class is a class that allows only one instance object to be created.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes
  which can be persisted to a disk or  database or can be sent through streams.
  The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization .

when to use transient variable in java?
A.Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member
as transient, it will not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition
before iteration of the loop, whereas do-while loop, checks the condition after the execution
of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
A.Enum is a set of fixed variables.

What is Iterator?
A.An iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.int and Integer both represents same amount of memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.String is Immutable in Java because for it's efficiency and security reason.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another
constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environment and Parallel Garbage Collector
is used for multi-threaded environments  .

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts
up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. -Garbage collection is
the process of looking at heap memory, identifying which objects are in use and which are not
and deleting the unused objects. 

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.When an object is created its stored in the heap  and Stack creates a memory to the created object.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
without knowing the names of the classes, methods and it is useful because it supports dynamic retrieval
of information about classes and data structures by name, and allows for their manipulation within an
executing Java program.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a
lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading,
both are used to achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with
multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized
method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A.Frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.junit and testNG.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.JUNit is one of the most popular testing frameworks used for unit testing for the
Java programming language.It’s an open-source testing framework used by countless
Java projects for writing and running tests.TestNG is another popular testing framework
used with Selenium WebDriver and is quite similar to JUnit, but with added functionalists
and features such as parallel test execution, parameterization, and more. It is inspired
by JUnit and NUnit.


What are the dependencies for this project?
A.gson, java-json, mongo-java-driver, mysql-connector and testNG


what is dependency injection in java?
A.dependency injection is a technique whereby one object or static method supplies the
dependencies of another object.


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









